h1. Mütrix

h2. Controls

h3. Instruments

* Fill cells with left mouse button, remove with right.
* Scroll mouse wheel to move entire matrix up or down (works only for piano and bass.)
* Click on each instrument's icon to clear them.
* Press 'c' to clear all instruments in the current pattern.
* Press 'space' to start and stop the player.

h3. Patterns

* Press the '+'-icon or the '+'-key on your keyboard to add a new pattern, and press the '-'-key (minus) to delete the last pattern.
* Click on a pattern number or the equivalent number key on your keyboard to select it.
* Right click a pattern number to delete it.
* Ctrl-click a pattern number to duplicate it. (appends to end of song)
* Press 'ctrl+c' to copy the active pattern and press 'ctrl+v' in another pattern to paste it.

h3. Song editor

* Click the song editor (bottom row) to select it.
* Use the numbers 1-9 to add the corresponding pattern to the song.
* Use delete and backspace to delete the selected or preceding song block (much like in a text editor)
* Press 'return' to play the entire song end press return again to stop it.
* Press 'e' or click the floppy disc icon next to the song editor to export your song to a midi file.
  The song will be written to the given filename in the folder you've stored mutrix.love/mutrix.exe.

Note: The resulting midi will not sound like the ingame music but can be imported to a sequencer (like "LMMS":http://lmms.sourceforge.net/ or "GXSCC":http://www.geocities.co.jp/SiliconValley-SanJose/8700/P/GsorigE.htm)
to spice it up.